CHAPTER I

A NEW BOY ARRIVES


“How far is it to Oak Park School, please?”

The policeman on duty at the North Woodfield station turned from
watching the train disappear westward along the track and gave his
attention to the speaker. What he saw was a rather thin youth of
fourteen with deeply tanned face from which a pair of gray eyes looked
somewhat anxiously upward. The boy had removed his hat, a dilapidated
straw adorned with a faded blue band, not out of deference to the
majesty of the law but because the September afternoon was decidedly
hot, leaving to view a head of pale brown hair, rumpled and damp,
which had evidently been trimmed both recently and poorly. He wore a
suit of gray flannel, a white shirt, with a stiff and creaky bosom, a
narrow red four-in-hand tie and tan shoes. In spite of the fact that
his attire was all of the most inexpensive sort he was quite palpably
“dressed up” and extremely uncomfortable. He had set down his bag, a
small and very shiny contrivance of imitation alligator skin, in order
to run a new and scratchy handkerchief around inside his collar.

“What was it you asked?” inquired the officer.

“How far is it to Oak Park School, sir? And which way do I have to go,
please?”

The officer had started a good many boys on their initial journey to
the school and had acquired a method of procedure.

“Pick up your bag and I’ll show you, my boy. Right through here.” He
conducted his charge across the waiting-room and out the further door
where, along the asphalt walk, carriage drivers were clamoring for
fares.

“The school’s about a half a mile up that way. Any of these drivers
will take you there.”

“But they’ll charge me, won’t they?” asked the boy.

“Sure! They ain’t doing it for their health. It’s only a quarter,
though. You can stand that, I guess.”

“I’d rather walk if you’ll tell me how to go.”

The officer turned for another survey of the boy before he replied. He
had seen a number of Oak Park School boys, but this was the first one
who had ever in his experience saved carriage fare. “Don’t quite look
like he belonged at that school,” he said to himself. Then,

“’D rather walk, eh? Well, you cross the common here and take that
street over by the hardware store. See? Keep right on that until you
get to the school. You can’t miss it. Going to the Hall, are you?”

“No, sir; West House.”

“Well, that’s a bit farther, but you’d better go up to the school and
then cross over through the park. You might go another way, but it’s
longer and a good deal hotter walking, I guess. If I was you, though,
I’d take a carriage. There’s a load of the boys going up now. Better go
with ’em.”

“I cal’late I’d rather walk, thanks. It ain’t very far.” He put on his
hat and returned his handkerchief to his pocket. “Much obliged, sir.”

“Oh, you’re welcome. Better take it easy; it’s a hot day.”

“Yes, sir, I will.”

The officer watched him cross the road, enter the common and strike off
toward the other side of the Square. He smiled and then he shook his
head.

“Wonder how he came here,” he muttered. “I guess he’s in for a lot
of guying when the rest of ’em catch sight of him. Well, he’ll live
through it.”

The boy reached the farther side of the common and started across the
street in front of the hardware store. At that moment a three-seated
surrey containing the driver, four boys and numerous suit-cases came
along and the boy on foot had to retreat hurriedly to keep from being
run down.

“Look out there, farmer! Most got you that time!”

“Look where you’re going, kid!”

He had a brief glimpse of laughing, mocking faces and then the surrey,
drawn by a pair of sleek bays, dashed around the corner out of sight.
He started again across the street, this time looking cautiously to
left and right. But the course was clear now. Across from the hardware
store was a druggist’s and huge placards told enticingly of “Ice Cold
Soda” and “College Ices.” One hand went tentatively into his trousers
pocket as the hiss of the soda fountain came to him. But it came out
again empty and he turned down the street toward the school. “Elm
Street” said the sign on the corner, but the elms were not in sight.
Beyond an occasional maple, too small to throw shade, the street
was treeless and the hot sunlight beat remorselessly down on either
sidewalk.

There had been a fountain in the common and he wished now that he had
stopped and had a drink. For a block or two small stores lined the way
and he considered entering one of them and asking for water. But they
were all shabby and untidy and by the time he had made up his mind
to ask he had left them behind, and houses, no more attractive than
the stores, had taken their place. He took the policeman’s advice and
walked slowly, for in spite of the fact that it wanted but a week to
the first of October the day was as hot as an August one and the stiff
shirt and the vest, both articles of attire with which he was somewhat
unfamiliar, increased his discomfort. He hoped that the policeman
hadn’t underestimated the distance to the school. The bag, while it
wasn’t very heavy, didn’t make progress any easier. And that awful
collar was squeezing his neck like a vise!

He had started from home after an early dinner feeling decidedly
excited and elated, but the elation was dwindling fast with every step,
and the excitement had changed to something that savored both of dismay
and homesickness. When, away last Spring, it had been decided in family
council that he was to go to boarding school and prepare for college
the prospect had filled him with delight. Now he wished himself back
in West Bayport. He already missed the sight and smell of the ocean
and the wharves and the shipping. It seemed unpleasantly shut in here,
and the air was dead and held no tang, and the street was deep in
yellowish-gray dust and even the hills in the distance looked hot and
wilted under their purple haze. On the whole, he was sorely tempted to
retrace his steps and take the next train homeward, abandoning Oak Park
and college and all they stood for.